This directory contains a set of tools which I use to develop the new
hyphenation patterns for the Dutch language based upon the `Groene
boekje 1996'. The sorting and merging tools expect ISO Latin1 sorted
word lists. For the benefit of MSDOS users who work in ANSI the PERL
script lat2ansi.pl is available.

Overview of the available tools:

c2ascii:     a very simple tool to convert 8-bits to 7-bits ASCII. If the
             character in question has a code greater than 128 the
	     character will be converted to ^^xx (where xx is its
	     hexadecimal representation)

diacrit:     a program that shows the ISOLatin1 character set

hyphenate:   this program can generate a hyphenation dictionary by applying
	     TeX hyphenation patterns to a dictionary

hyphens.pl:  A PERL script to generate a hyphenated words given hyphenation
	     patterns, with possible exceptions, and a list of unhyphenated
	     words. The program correctly handles Dutch words with `apostroph'
	     and `koppelteken'. The hyphen is represented as a high dot 
	     because our language uses the - inside words (na-apen).

latin2pc.pl: a PERL script for converting ISO Latin1 files to/from IBM PC
	     code page 437.

worddiff:    this program generates all words from wordlist one that are
	     not present in the second wordlist (set difference)

wordints:    this program generates the intersection between two wordsorted
	     wordlists

wordsort:    this program sorts a dictionary containing accents and
	     hyphens using dictionary order (only letters and digits)

wordmerge:   this program merges two or more lists of words (sorted!) into
	     a larger dictionary (also sorted).

wordmatch:   this program compares a dictionary with hyphenated words
             against a file containing the same words. With this program
	     you can compute how a given set of patterns behave.

--Piet
12 December 1996

internet: rcpt@urc.tue.nl      __o      Piet Tutelaers
                             _`\<,_     Computer Center       Room  RC 1.82
phone:  +31 (0)40 2474541   (_)/ (_)    Eindhoven University of  Technology
fax:    +31 (0)40 2434438  Save nature  P.O. Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, NL
